[Tessio brings in Luca Brasi's bulletproof vest, delivered with a fish inside]
Sonny: What the hell is this?
Clemenza: It's a Sicilian message. It means Luca Brasi sleeps with the fishes.
%
Don Corleone: We have known each other many years, but this is the first time you've come to me for counsel or for help. I can't remember the last time you invited me to your house for a cup of coffee, even though my wife is godmother to your only child. But let's be frank here. You never wanted my friendship. And you feared to be in my debt.
Bonasera: I didn't want to get into trouble.
Don Corleone: I understand. You found paradise in America. You had a good trade, you made a good living. The police protected you and there were courts of law. So you didn't need a friend like me. Now you come and say "Don Corleone, give me justice." But you don't ask with respect. You don't offer friendship. You don't even think to call me "Godfather." You come into my house on the day my daughter is to be married and you ask me to do murder - for money.
Bonasera: I ask you for justice.
Don Corleone: That is not justice. Your daughter is alive.
Bonasera: Let them suffer then as she suffers.
[the Don is silent]
Bonasera: How much shall I pay you?
[the Don turns away dismissively, but Bonasera stays on]
Don Corleone: Bonasera, Bonasera, what have I ever done to make you treat me so disrespectfully? If you'd come to me in friendship, this scum who ruined your daughter would be suffering this very day. And if by some chance an honest man like yourself made enemies they would become my enemies. And then, they would fear you.
Bonasera: Be my friend... Godfather.
[the Don at first shrugs, but upon hearing the title he lifts his hand, and a humbled Bonasera kisses the ring on it]
Don Corleone: Good.
[He places his hand around Bonasera in a paternal gesture]
Don Corleone: Some day, and that day may never come, I will call upon you to do a service for me. But until that day, consider this justice a gift on my daughter's wedding day.
[a gratified Bonasera offers his thanks and leaves]
Don Corleone: [to Hagen] Give this job to Clemenza. I want reliable people, people who aren't going to be carried away. I mean, we're not murderers, in spite of what this undertaker thinks...
%
Sollozzo: Bene, Don Corleone. I need a man who has powerful friends. I need a million dollars in cash. I need, Don Corleone, all of those politicians that you carry around in your pocket, like so many nickels and dimes.
Don Corleone: What is the interest for my family?
Sollozzo: Thirty percent. In the first year your end should be three, four million dollars. And then it would go up.
Don Corleone: And what is the interest for the Tattalgia family?
Sollozzo: [smiles at Tom] My compliments.
[Hagen gives a formal nod]
Sollozzo: I'll take care of the Tattaglias, out of my share.
Don Corleone: So, I am to receive thirty percent for finance, for legal protection and political influence. Is that what you're telling me?
Sollozzo: That's right.
Don Corleone: Why come to me? What have I done to deserve such generosity?
Sollozzo: If you consider a million dollars in cash merely finance...
[raises his glass]
Sollozzo: Te salut, Don Corleone.
[the Don gets up to take a drink and sits closer to Sollozzo]
Don Corleone: I said that I would see you because I had heard that you were a serious man, to be treated with respect. But I must say no to you and let me give you my reasons. It's true I have a lot of friends in politics, but they wouldn't be so friendly if they knew my business was drugs instead of gambling which they consider a harmless vice. But drugs, that's a dirty business.
Sollozzo: No, Don Corleone...
Don Corleone: It makes no difference, it don't make any difference to me what a man does for a living, you understand. But your business is a little dangerous.
Sollozzo: If you're worried about security for your million, the Tattaglias will guarantee it.
Sonny: Whoa, now, you're telling me that the Tattaglias guarantee our investment without...?
Don Corleone: Wait a minute.
[the Don gives his son a cold stare, freezing Santino into silence. The others fidget with embarrassment at this outbreak, but Sollozzo looks slyly satisfied... ]
Don Corleone: [dismissive] I have a sentimental weakness for my children and I spoil them, as you can see. They talk when they should listen. Anyway, Signor Sollozzo, my no to you is final. I want to congratulate you on your new business and I'm sure you'll do very well and good luck to you. Especially since your interests don't conflict with mine. Thank you.
[Sollozzo leaves]
Don Corleone: Santino, come here.
Don Corleone: What's the matter with you? I think your brain is going soft with all that comedy you are playing with that young girl. Never tell anyone outside the Family what you are thinking again. Go on.
%
Jack Woltz: All right, start talking!
Tom Hagen: I come from a personal friend of Mr Johnny Fontane. That friend promises his undying friendship if you would do him a small favour.
Jack Woltz: What's that?
Tom Hagen: Give Johnny a part in that war movie you're starting next week.
[Woltz signs a document with a smile and walks away, Hagen alongside him]
Jack Woltz: And what favours does this friend promise in exchange for giving Johnny the part?
Tom Hagen: You've got some labour trouble coming up. My client promises to make that trouble disappear. You have a top star who makes a lot of money, but he just graduated from marijuana to heroin...
Jack Woltz: [all East Side now] Are you trying to muscle me?
Tom Hagen: Absolutely not. I've come to ask a service for a friend...
Jack Woltz: Now you listen to me, you smooth-talking son-of-a-bitch, let me lay it on the line for you and your boss, whoever he is! Johnny Fontane will never get that movie! I don't care how many dago guinea wop greaseball goombahs come out of the woodwork!
Tom Hagen: I'm German-Irish.
Jack Woltz: Well, let me tell you something, my kraut-mick friend, I'm gonna make so much trouble for you, you won t know what hit you!
Tom Hagen: Mr. Woltz, I'm a lawyer. I have not threatened you.
Jack Woltz: I know almost every big lawyer in New York, who the hell are you?
Tom Hagen: I have a special practice. I handle one client. Now you have my number, I'll wait for your call. By the way, I admire your pictures very much.
[Hagen leaves, with Woltz staring after him]
Jack Woltz: [to an underling] Check him out...
%
Kay Adams: Michael, you never told me you knew Johnny Fontane!
Michael: Sure, you want to meet him?
Kay Adams: Well, yeah! Sure.
Michael: My father helped him with his career.
Kay Adams: How did he do that?
Michael: ...Let's listen to the song.
Kay Adams: [after listening to Johnny for a while] Tell me, Michael. Please.
Michael: Well, when Johnny was first starting out, he was signed to a personal services contract with this big-band leader. And as his career got better and better, he wanted to get out of it. But the band leader wouldn't let him. Now, Johnny is my father's godson. So my father went to see this bandleader and offered him $10,000 to let Johnny go, but the bandleader said no. So the next day, my father went back, only this time with Luca Brasi. Within an hour, he had a signed release for a certified check of $1000.
Kay Adams: How did he do that?
Michael: My father made him an offer he couldn't refuse.
Kay Adams: What was that?
Michael: Luca Brasi held a gun to his head, and my father assured him that either his brains or his signature would be on the contract.
Kay Adams: ...
Michael: ...That's a true story.
[cut to Johnny singing again for about 10 more seconds before going back to Michael]
Michael: That's my family Kay, that's not me.
%
[as Tessio and Hagen walk to Michael's house, they are met by a bodyguard, Willi Cicci]
Willi Cicci: Sal... Tom... the boss says he'll come in a separate car. He says for you two to go on ahead.
Tessio: Hell, he can't do that; that screws up all my arrangements.
Willi Cicci: Well, that's what he said.
Tom Hagen: I can't go with you either, Tessio.
[just then, Michael's bodyguards materialize around them, Tessio understands everything]
Tessio: [to Hagen] Tell Mike it was only business. I always liked him.
Tom Hagen: He understands that.
Willi Cicci: [removing Tessio's gun] Excuse me, Sally.
Tessio: Can you get me off the hook, Tom? For old times' sake?
Tom Hagen: [shakes his head] Can't do it, Sally.
[Hagen watches sadly as Tessio is led by Cicci and the others to a waiting car]
%
[first lines]
Bonasera: I believe in America. America has made my fortune. And I raised my daughter in the American fashion. I gave her freedom but I taught her never to dishonor her family. She found a "boy friend," not an Italian. She went to the movies with him. She stayed out late. I didn't protest. Two months ago he took her for a drive, with another boy friend. They made her drink whiskey and then they tried to take advantage of her. She resisted. She kept her honor. So they beat her. Like an animal. When I went to the hospital her nose was broken. Her jaw was shattered, held together by wire. She couldn't even weep because of the pain. But I wept. Why did I weep? She was the light of my life. A beautiful girl. Now she will never be beautiful again.
[He breaks down at this point, and the Don gestures to his son to get him a drink]
Bonasera: Sorry...
[He regains his composure and carries on]
Bonasera: I went to the police, like a good American. These two boys were brought to trial. The judge sentenced them to three years in prison, and suspended the sentence. Suspended sentence! They went free that very day! I stood in the courtroom like a fool, and those two bastards, they smiled at me. Then I said to my wife, "For justice, we must go to Don Corleone."
Don Corleone: Why did you go to the police? Why didn't you come to me first?
Bonasera: What do you want of me? Tell me anything. But do what I beg you to do.
Don Corleone: What is that?
[Bonasera gets up from his seat and whispers into the Don's ear; for a long moment the Don is silent]
Don Corleone: That I cannot do.
Bonasera: I will give you anything you ask!
%
[last lines]
Michael: All right. This one time I'll let you ask me about my affairs.
Kay Adams: Is it true? Is it?
Michael: No.
[Kay smiles and walks into his arms]
Kay Adams: I guess we both need a drink, huh?
[Kay goes to the kitchen to fix a drink, but sees Peter Clemenza, Rocco Lampone and Al Neri enter Michael's office]
Clemenza: Don Corleone.
[Clemenza kisses Michael's hand, and Neri shuts the door in her face... ]
%
Michael: My father is no different than any powerful man, any man with power, like a president or senator.
Kay Adams: Do you know how naive you sound, Michael? Presidents and senators don't have men killed.
Michael: Oh. Who's being naive, Kay?
%
Tom Hagen: Sollozo is known as the Turk. He's supposed to be very good with a knife. But only in matters of business, or of some sort of reasonable complaint. His business is narcotics. He has the fields in Turkey, where they grow the poppy. In Sicily he has the plant to process it into heroin. He needs cash and he needs protection from the police for which he gives a piece of the action, I couldn't find out how much. The Tattaglia Family is behind him here in New York so they have to be in it for something.
Don Corleone: What about his prison record?
Tom Hagen: Two terms, one in Italy, and one here. He's known as a top narcotics man.
Don Corleone: Santino, what do you think?
Sonny: There's a lot of money in that white powder.
Don Corleone: Tom?
Tom Hagen: Well, I say yes. There is more money potential in narcotics than anything else we're looking at now. If we don't get into it, somebody else will, maybe one of the Five Families, maybe all of them. And with the money they earn they'll be able to buy more police and political power. Then they come after us. Right now we have the unions and we have the gambling and those are the best things to have. But narcotics is a thing of the future. If we don't get a piece of that action we risk everything we have. Not now, but ten years from now.
Sonny: Well, what's your answer gonna be, Pop?
%
Sollozzo: [to Michael, in Sicilian] I am sorry. What happened to your father was business. I have much respect for your father. But your father, his thinking is old-fashioned. You must understand why I had to do that. Now let's work through where we go from here.
[Michael tries speaking in Sicilian, but can't express himself properly, so with a quick look at McCluskey they both switch to English]
Michael: What I want... what's most important to me is that I have a guarantee: no more attempts on my father's life.
Sollozzo: What guarantees could I give you, Mike? I'm the hunted one. I've missed my chance. You think too much of me, kid. I am not that clever. All I want is a truce.
Michael: I have to go to the bathroom. Is that all right?
Capt. McCluskey: You gotta go, you gotta go.
[Michael gets up, but a suspicious Sollozzo probes Michael's crotch, to Michael's offense]
Capt. McCluskey: I frisked him. He's clean.
Sollozzo: Don't take too long...
[Michael heads to the bathroom]
Capt. McCluskey: [to Sollozzo] I frisked a thousand young punks.
%
Emilio Barzini: [during a meeting with the Five Families] Times have changed. It's not like the Old Days, when we can do anything we want. A refusal is not the act of a friend. If Don Corleone had all the judges, and the politicians in New York, then he must share them, or let us others use them. He must let us draw the water from the well. Certainly he can present a bill for such services; after all... we are not Communists.
%
Tom Hagen: When I meet with Tattaglia's men, should I insist all their drug middlemen have clean records?
Don Corleone: Mention it, don't insist. But Barzini will know that without being told.
Tom Hagen: You mean Tattaglia...
Don Corleone: Tattaglia is a pimp. He never could have outfought Santino. But I didn't know until this day that it was Barzini all along.
%
Don Corleone: You talk about vengeance. Is vengeance going to bring your son back to you? Or my boy to me?
%
Johnny Fontane: [discussing his problems] I don't know what to do, Godfather. My voice is weak, it's weak. Anyway, if I had this part in the picture, it puts me right back on top, you know. But this... this man out there. He won't give it to me, the head of the studio.
Don Corleone: What's his name?
Don Corleone: Woltz. He said there's no chance, no chance...
[Meanwhile, Hagen finds Sonny and summons him]
Johnny Fontane: A month ago he bought the rights to this book, a best seller. The main character is a guy just like me. I wouldn't even have to act, just be myself. Oh, Godfather, I don't know what to do, I don't know what to do...
[All of a sudden, Don Corleone rises from his chair and gives Fontane a savage shake]
Don Corleone: YOU CAN ACT LIKE A MAN!
[gives a quick slap to Fontane]
Don Corleone: What's the matter with you? Is this what you've become, a Hollywood finocchio who cries like a woman? "Oh, what do I do? What do I do?" What is that nonsense? Ridiculous!
[the Don's unexpected mimicry makes Hagen and even Fontane laugh; around this time Sonny comes in]
Don Corleone: Tell me, do you spend time with your family?
Johnny Fontane: Sure I do.
Don Corleone: Good. Because a man who doesn't spend time with his family can never be a real man.
[gives a quick look at Sonny and affectionately embraces Fontane]
Don Corleone: You look terrible. I want you to eat, I want you to rest well. And a month from now this Hollywood big shot's gonna give you what you want.
Johnny Fontane: Too late. They start shooting in a week.
Don Corleone: I'm gonna make him an offer he won't refuse. Okay? I want you to leave it all to me. Go on, go back to the party.
[a gratified Fontane leaves]
%
Tom Hagen: Mr Corleone is Johnny Fontane's godfather. Now Italians regard that as a very close, a very sacred religious relationship.
Jack Woltz: Tell your boss he can ask for anything else, but this is one favour I can't grant him.
Tom Hagen: Mr. Corleone never asks a second favor once he's refused the first, understood?
Jack Woltz: You don't understand. Johnny Fontane never gets that movie. That part is perfect for him. It'll make him a big star. I'm gonna run him out of the movies. And let me tell you why. Johnny Fontane ruined one of Woltz International's most valuable proteges. For three years we had her under contract, singing lessons, dancing lessons, acting lessons. I spent hundreds of thousands of dollars. I was gonna make her a big star. And let me be even more frank, just to show you that I'm not a hard-hearted man, that it's not all dollars and cents. She was beautiful! She was young, she was innocent. She was the greatest piece of ass I've ever had, and I've had 'em all over the world. And then Johnny Fontaine comes along with his olive oil voice and guinea charm and she runs off. She threw it all away just to make me look ridiculous. And a man in my position can't afford to be made to look ridiculous. Now you get the hell out of here! And if that goomba tries any rough stuff, you tell him I ain't no bandleader. Yeah, I heard that story.
[Hagen has been calmly eating his meal throughout Woltz's tirade]
Tom Hagen: Thank you for the dinner and a very pleasant evening. Have your car take me to the airport. Mr Corleone is a man who insists on hearing bad news at once.
%
Sollozzo: I don't like violence, Tom. I'm a businessman; blood is a big expense.
%
Connie: [shrieking at Michael] You killed my husband! You waited until our father died so nobody could stop you and you killed him! You killed him! You blamed him for Sonny, you always did, everybody did. But you never thought about me. You never gave a dam about me. What am I going to do now?
Kay Adams: [taking Connie in her arms] Connie...
Connie: Why do you think he kept Carlo at the mall? All the time he knew he was going to kill him. And then he stood Godfather to our baby. You think you know your husband? You know how many men he had killed! Read the papers. Read the papers! That's your husband!
[Michael takes Connie into her arms, but she goes wild again and tries to attack him]
Michael Corleone: Take her upstairs. Get her a doctor.
[Michael's bodyguards grab Connie and pull her out of the office]
Michael Corleone: [to Kay] She's hysterical.
Kay Adams: Is it true?
Michael Corleone: Don't ask me about my business, Kay.
Kay Adams: Is it true?
Michael Corleone: Don't ask me about my business...
Kay Adams: No...
Michael Corleone: [slams the desk] ENOUGH!
%
Don Zaluchi: I also don't believe in drugs. For years I paid my people extra so they wouldn't do that kind of business. Somebody comes to them and says, "I have powders; if you put up three, four thousand dollar investment, we can make fifty thousand distributing." So they can't resist. I want to control it as a business, to keep it respectable.
[slams his hand on the table and shouts]
Don Zaluchi: I don't want it near schools! I don't want it sold to children! That's an infamia. In my city, we would keep the traffic in the dark people, the coloreds. They're animals anyway, so let them lose their souls.
%
[Clemenza prepares Michael for his meeting with Sollozzo]
Clemenza: [holding up a .22] It's as cold as they come, impossible to trace. So you don't have to worry about prints, Mike. I put a special tape on the trigger and the butt. Here, try it...
[Michael takes the gun, but can't seem to fire it]
Clemenza: What's the matter, trigger too tight?
[With a loud bang, Michael finally discharges the gun]
Michael: Ow! My ears.
Clemenza: Yeah, I left it noisy. That way it scares any pain-in-the-ass innocent bystanders away. All right, you shot them both, now what do you do?
Michael: Sit down and finish my dinner.
Clemenza: Come on, kid, don't fool around. Just let your hand drop to your side and the gun slip out. Everyone will still think you've got it. They're gonna be staring at your face, Mike. So walk out of the place real fast, but you don't run. Don't look nobody directly in the eye, hut don't look away either. They're gonna be scared of you, believe me, so don't worry about nothing.
[while talking, Clemenza takes the gun and begins working on it to fix the trigger]
Clemenza: You know, Mike, you're gonna turn out all right. You take a long vacation, nobody knows where, and we'll catch the hell.
Michael: How bad do you think it's gonna be?
Clemenza: Pretty goddam bad. Probably all the other Families will line up against us. That's all right. These things gotta happen every five years or so, ten years. Helps to get rid of the bad blood. Been ten years since the last one. You know, you gotta stop them at the beginning. Like they should have stopped Hitler at Munich, they should never let him get away with that, they was just asking for trouble.
[Clemenza now finishes working on the gun]
Clemenza: You know, Mike, we was all proud of you being a hero and all. Your father too.
[Clemenza hands the gun back to Michael]
%
[Sonny pays a visit to his sister Connie. He is surprised to find her subdued and evasive]
Sonny: [surprised] What's the matter? Huh? What's the matter?
[He looks at her swollen face and understands what has happened. He pulls away to go after Carlo... ]
Connie: [grabbing his shoulders] It was my fault!
Sonny: Where is he?
Connie: [weeping with terror] Sonny, please. Sonny, it was my fault. It was my fault. I started a fight with him. Please, Sonny...
[Sonny, now under control, hushes her and kisses her forehead]
Sonny: Okay... I'm just going to get a doctor to come down and take a look at you.
Connie: Sonny, please don't do anything. Please don't do anything.
Sonny: What's the matter with you, huh? What am I going to do? Am I going to make that baby an orphan before he's born?
[Connie gives a chuckle, and Sonny kisses her again and good-humouredly shrugs his soldiers]
Sonny: All right?
[cut to Sonny beating up Carlo]
%
[at midnight, Don Corleone walks into his office and finds Tom Hagen taking a drink]
Don Corleone: Give me a drop.
[Hagen hands the Don his glass of anisette]
Don Corleone: My wife is crying upstairs. I hear cars coming to the house. Consigliore of mine, I think it's time you told your Don what everyone seems to know.
Tom Hagen: I didn't tell Mama anything. I was just about to come up and wake you so that I could tell you.
Don Corleone: But you needed a drink first.
[Hagen nods]
Don Corleone: And now you've had your drink.
Tom Hagen: They shot Sonny on the causeway. He's dead.
[the Don accepts this news without any sign of emotion, except to close his eyes and remain silent for a few minutes]
Don Corleone: [speaking at last] I want no inquiries made. I want no acts of vengeance. I want you to arrange a meeting with the heads of the Five Families. This war stops now.
%
Tom Hagen: I have to get back to work. It's part of the wedding. No Sicilian can ever refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day.
%
Don Corleone: Call Bonasera. We need him now.
[Tom Hagen calls Amerigo Bonasera]
Tom Hagen: [on the phone] This is Tom Hagen, calling for Vito Corleone at his request. Now, you owe your Don a service. He has no doubt that you will repay him. In one hour he will be at your funeral parlor to ask for your help. Be there to greet him.
[as ordered, a nervous Bonasera meets the Don at his parlor]
Don Corleone: Well, my friend, are you ready to do me this service?
Bonasera: Yes. What do you want me to do?
[the two walk into the embalming room, where a corpse lies on a table... ]
Don Corleone: [staring at the table] I want you to use all your powers, and all your skills. I don't want his mother to see him this way.
[he draws back the sheet to reveal, to a horrified Bonasera, the bullet-smashed face of Sonny Corleone]
Don Corleone: [breaking down for a moment] Look how they massacred my boy...
%
Michael: Fabrizzio, where are you going?
[Apollonia hoots the car and starts to drive it; Fabrizzio gives a quick, furtive movement... ]
Michael: NO! NO APOLLONIA!
[the car explodes]
%
[Michael gets ready to leave the house]
Sonny: Where're you going?
Michael: To the City.
Sonny: [to Clemenza] Yeah? Well, send somebody with him.
Michael: No, I'm just gonna go see Pop.
Sonny: I don't care, send some bodyguards with him.
Clemenza: He'll be all right. Sollozzo knows he's a civilian.
Sonny: Yeah? Well take care, all right?
Michael: Yes, sir.
[Michael leaves]
Sonny: Send someone with him anyway...
%
[Sunday dinner at the Corleone home... ]
Sonny: Niggers havin' a real good time up in Harlem...
Carlo Rizzi: I knew that was going to happen as soon as they tasted the big money.
Connie: Papa never talked about business in front of the kids.
Carlo Rizzi: Shut up, Connie.
Sonny: Hey, don't you EVER tell her to shut up, you got that?
Mama Corleone: Santino, don't interfere.
[Silence reigns around the table for a while]
Carlo Rizzi: Sonny, Tom, I'd like to talk to you after dinner. I think I can do a lot more for this family...
Sonny: We don't discuss business at the table.
%
Don Corleone: [to Luca Brasi] I'm a little worried about this Sollozzo fellow. I want you to find out what he's got under his fingernails. Go to the Tattaglias, and tell them you're not too happy with our Family, and find out what you can...
%
Don Corleone: I like to drink wine more than I used to...
[pause]
Don Corleone: Anyway, I'm drinking more.
Michael: It's good for you, Pop.
Don Corleone: Ah, I don't know...
%
Don Corleone: Oh, I want you to arrange to have a telephone man check all the calls going in and out of here because it could be anyone...
Michael: I did that already, Pop. I took care of that.
Don Corleone: Oh, that's right. I forgot.
Michael: What's the matter? What's bothering you? I'll handle it. I told you I can handle it, I'll handle it.
[the Don rises as if to leave, but changes his mind midway and seats himself closer to Michael]
Don Corleone: I knew Santino was going to have to go through all this and Fredo... well, Fredo was... But I, I never wanted this for you. I work my whole life, I don't apologize, to take care of my family. And I refused to be a fool dancing on the strings held by all of those big shots. That's my life, I don't apologize for that. But I always thought that when it was your time, that you would be the one to hold the strings. Senator Corleone, Governor Corleone, something.
Michael: Another pezzonovante.
Don Corleone: Well, there wasn't enough time, Michael. There just wasn't enough time.
Michael: We'll get there, Pop. We'll get there.
[the Don kisses his son on the forehead]
%
[Tom Hagen goes Christmas shopping, and meets Sollozzo]
Sollozzo: I want to talk to you.
Tom Hagen: [stepping aside] I haven't got time...
Sollozzo: Make time, Consigliore!
[Hagen finds himself trapped between Sollozzo and a hood]
Sollozzo: What are you worried about? If I wanted to kill you you'd be dead already. Get in.
[a car drives up]
%
[speaking to himself, practicing his speech]
Luca Brasi: Don Corleone, I am honored and grateful that you have invited me to your home on the wedding day of your daughter. And may their first child be a masculine child.
[then, starting over]
%
Michael: I have to see my father and his people so have dinner without me.
Kay Adams: Oh, Michael.
Michael: This weekend we'll go out. We'll go to the city, see a show and have dinner, I promise.
Kay Adams: Hmmmm. Michael. Michael, wait, your sister wants to ask you something.
Michael: Well, let her ask.
Kay Adams: No, she's afraid to. Connie and Carlo want you to be Godfather to their little boy.
Michael: We'll see.
Kay Adams: Will you?
Michael: Let me think about it. We'll see.
%
Michael: You have to answer for Santino, Carlo. You fingered Sonny for the Barzini people.
Carlo Rizzi: Mike, you got it all wrong.
Michael: Ah, that little farce you played with my sister. You think that would fool a Corleone?
Carlo Rizzi: Mike, I'm innocent. I swear on the kids.
Michael: Sit down.
Carlo Rizzi: Please don't do this to me, Mike. Please don't.
Michael: Barzini is dead. So is Phillip Tattaglia. Moe Greene. Stracci. Cuneo. Today I settled all family business so don't tell me that you're innocent. Admit what you did.
[Carlo starts sobbing]
Michael: Get him a drink. Don't be afraid, Carlo. Come on, you think I'd make my sister a widow? I'm Godfather to your son.
[Carlo get handed a drink]
Michael: Go ahead. Drink. Drink. No, you're out of the family business, that's your punishment. You're finished. I'm putting you on a plane to Vegas. Tom?
[Tom hands Michael an airplane ticket]
Michael: I want you to stay there, you understand?
[Carlo nods]
Michael: Only don't tell me that you're innocent. Because it insults my intelligence and it makes me very angry. Now, who approached you first? Barzini or Tattaglia?
Carlo Rizzi: It was Barzini.
Michael: Good. There's a car outside that will take you to the airport. I'll call your wife and tell her what flight you're on.
Carlo Rizzi: Listen, Mike...
Michael: Go on. Get out of my sight.
%
Michael: My credit good enough to buy you out?
Moe Greene: Buy me out?
[Fredo laughs nervously]
Michael: The hotel, the casino. The Corleone Family wants to buy you out.
Moe Greene: The Corleone Family wants to buy me out? No, I buy you out, you don't buy me out.
Michael: Your casino loses money, maybe we can do better.
Moe Greene: You think I'm skimmin off the top, Mike?
Michael: [Michael shakes his head] You're unlucky.
Moe Greene: You goddamn guineas you really make me laugh. I do you a favor and take Freddie in when you're having a bad time, and now you're gonna try and push me out!
Michael: You took Freddie in because the Corleone Family bankrolled your casino, and the Molinari Family on the Coast guaranteed his safety. Now we're talking business, let's talk business.
Moe Greene: Yeah, let's talk business, Mike. First of all, you're all done. The Corleone Family don't even have that kind of muscle anymore. The Godfather's sick, right? You're getting chased out of New York by Barzini and the other Families. What do you think is going on here? You think you can come to my hotel and take over? I talked to Barzini - I can make a deal with him, and still keep my hotel!
Michael: Is that why you slapped my brother around in public?
Fredo: Aw, now that, that was nothin', Mike. Moe didn't mean nothin' by that. Yeah, sure he flies off the handle every once in a while, but me and him, we're good friends, right Moe?
Moe Greene: I got a business to run. I gotta kick asses sometimes to make it run right. We had a little argument, Freddy and me, so I had to straighten him out.
Michael: You straightened my brother out?
Moe Greene: He was banging cocktail waitresses two at a time! Players couldn't get a drink at the table! What's the matter with you?
Michael: I leave for New York tomorrow, think about a price.
Moe Greene: Sonofabitch! Do you know who I am? I'm Moe Greene! I made my bones when you were going out with cheerleaders!
Fredo: Wait a minute, Moe, Moe, I got an idea. Tom, you're the Consiglieri and you can talk to the Don, you can explain...
Tom Hagen: Now hold it right there. The Don is semi-retired and Mike is in charge of the Family business now. If you have anything to say, say it to Michael.
Fredo: [Moe Greene leaves] Mike! You do not come to Las Vegas and talk to a man like Moe Greene like that!
Michael: Fredo, you're my older brother, and I love you. But don't ever take sides with anyone against the Family again. Ever.
%
Tessio: Barzini's people chisle my territory and we do nothing about it. Pretty soon there won't be anyplace in Brooklyn that I can hang my hat.
Michael: Try and be patient.
Clemenza: I'm not asking for help, Mike, just take off the handcuffs.
Michael: Be patient.
Clemenza: We gotta protect ourselves. At least give me the chance to recruit some new men.
Michael: No. I don't want to give Barzini any excuse to start fighting.
Tessio: Mike, you're wrong.
Clemenza: Don Corleone, you once said the day would come when me and Tessio could form our own families. Until today I would never think of such a thing but now I must ask your permission.
Don Corleone: Well, Michael's head of the family now and if give his permission then you have my blessing.
Michael: After we make the move to Nevada you can break off from the Corleone Family and go off on your own. After we make the move to Nevada.
Clemenza: How long will that take?
Michael: Six months.
Tessio: Forgive me, Godfather, but with you gone me and Pete will come under Barzini's thumb sooner or later.
Clemenza: And I hate that Goddamn Barzini. In six months time there won't be nothin' left to build on.
Don Corleone: Do you have faith in my judgement?
Clemenza: Yes.
Don Corleone: Do I have your loyalty?
Clemenza: Yes, always Godfather.
Don Corleone: Then be a friend to Michael. Do as he says.
Michael: There are negotiations being made that are going to answer all of your questions and solve all of your problems. That's all I can tell you right now. Carlo, you grew up in Nevada. When we make our move there you're going to be my right hand man. Tom Hagen is no longer Consigliari. He's going to be our lawyer in Vegas. That's no reflection on Tom it's just the way I want it. Besides, if I ever help who's a better Consigliari than my father. That's it.
[Everyone except Hagen leaves]
Tom Hagen: Mike, why am I out?
Michael: You're not a wartime Consigliari, Tom. Things could get rough with the move we're making.
Don Corleone: Tom, I advised Michael. I never thought you were a bad Consigliari. I thought Santino was a bad Don, rest in peace. Michael has all my confidence as do you. But there are reasons why you must have nothing to do with what's going to happen.
Tom Hagen: Maybe I could help.
Michael: You're out, Tom.
%
Michael: Fredo, who are the girls?
Fredo: That's for you to find out.
Michael: Get rid of them, Fredo.
Fredo: Hey, Mike, uh...
Michael: I'm here on business I leave tomorrow now get rid of them. Come on, I'm tired. Get rid of the band, too.
[Fredo chases everyone out of the room]
Michael: What happened to Moe Greene?
Fredo: He had business. He said give him a call. Once the party started.
Michael: Well, give him a call. Hello, Johnny.
Johnny Fontane: Mike, it's nice to see you again.
Michael: We're all proud of you. Sit down, Johnny, I want to talk to you. The Don's proud of you, too.
Johnny Fontane: Well, I owe it all to him.
Michael: He knows how grateful you are. That's why he'd like to ask a favor.
Johnny Fontane: Mike, what can I do?
Michael: The Corleone family is thinking of giving up all of its interest in the olive oil business, settling out here. Now Moe Greene will sell us his share of the hotel and the casino so that it can be completely owned by the family. Tom.
[Hagen hands Michael some papers]
Fredo: Hey, Mike, are you sure about that? I mean, Moe, loves the business. He never said anything to me about sellin'.
Michael: I'll make him an offer he can't refuse. You see, Johnny, we feel that entertainment is going to be a big factor in drawing gamblers into the casinos. We're hoping that you'll sign a contract agreeing to appear 5 times a year. Perhaps convince some of your friends in the movies to do the same. We're counting on you, Johnny.
Johnny Fontane: Sure, Mike, I'll do anything for my Godfather. You know that.
Michael: Good.
Moe Greene: Hey, Mike! Everybody's here. There's Tom. Freddie. Good to see you, Mike.
Michael: How are you, Moe?
Moe Greene: You got everything you need? The chef cooked for you special, the dancers will kick your tongue out and your credit is good. Draw chips for everyone in the room so they can play on the house.
%
[delivering his rehearsed speech]
Luca Brasi: Don Corleone, I am honored and grateful that you have invited me to your daughter... 's wedding... on the day of your daughter's wedding. And I hope their first child be a masculine child. I pledge my ever-ending loyalty.
%
[after Michael gets off the phone with Kay, clearly too embarrassed to tell her he loves her]
Clemenza: Mikey, why don't you tell that nice girl you love her? I love you with all-a my heart, if I don't see-a you again soon, I'm-a gonna die.
%
Sonny: Goddamn FBI don't respect nothin'.
%
Calo: In Sicily, women are more dangerous than shotguns.
%
Sonny: Hey, listen, I want somebody good - and I mean very good - to plant that gun. I don't want my brother coming out of that toilet with just his dick in his hands, alright?
Clemenza: The gun'll be there.
%
Sonny: Tom-anuch! Hey, a hundred button men on the street twenty-four hours a day. That Turk shows one hair on his ass and he's dead.
Sonny: [to Michael, whose face is bruised] Michael, come here. Let me look at you. You're beautiful, beautiful, just beautiful. Hey, listen to this. The Turk, he wants to talk. You believe the nerve on this son of a bitch? He craps out last night and now he wants to have a meetin'.
Tom Hagen: What did he say?
Sonny: What did he say, badda-beep, badda-boop, badda-boop, badda-beep, he wants us to send Michael to hear the proposition and the promise is the deal is so good we can't refuse. Ha.
Tom Hagen: What about Bruno Tattaglia?
Sonny: Ah, that's part of the deal. Bruno cancels out what they did to my father.
Tom Hagen: We ought to hear what they have to say, Sonny.
Sonny: No, no, no, not this time, Consigliary. No more meetin's, no more discussions, no more Sollozzo tricks. You give them a message from I want Solozzo if not it's all out war we go to the mattresses.
Tom Hagen: Some of the other families won't sit still for an all out war.
Sonny: Then you tell them to hand over Sollozzo!
Tom Hagen: Your father wouldn't want to hear this, Sonny. This is business not personal.
Sonny: They shoot my father and it's business, my ass!
Tom Hagen: Even shooting your father was business not personal, Sonny!
Sonny: Well then, business is going to have to suffer. And please, do me a favor, Tom. No more advice on how to patch things up just help me win, please?
Tom Hagen: I found out about this Captain McClusky who broke Mike's jaw.
Sonny: Alright, what about him.
Tom Hagen: He's definitely on Sollozzo's payroll and for big money. Now, McClusky has agreed to be the Turk's bodyguard. Now what you have to understand, Sonny, is that while Sollozzo's being guarded like this he is invulnerable. Nobody has ever gunned down a New York police captain before. It would be disasterous. All the other five families would turn against you. The Corleone Family would be outcast. Even the old man's political protection would run for cover. So, do me a favor, take this into consideration.
Sonny: Alright, we wait.
Michael: You can't wait.
Sonny: What?
Michael: You can't wait. I don't care what Sollozzo says about a deal he's gonna kill Pop. He has to. It's a key for him. You gotta get Sollozzo.
Clemenza: Mikey's right.
Sonny: Alright, Professor, what about McClusky. What do we do with this cop here?
Michael: They want to have a meeting with me, right? It will be me, McClusky and Sollozzo. Let's set the meeting. We get our informants to find out where it's going to be held. Now we insist that it be held in a public place, a bar or a restaurant where there'll be other people there so I'll feel safe. They're going to search me when I first meet them, right? So I can't have a weapon on me. But if Clemenza can figure a way to have a weapon planted for me, then I'll kill them both.
Sonny: [laughing] What are you gonna do? Nice college boy, didn't want to get mixed up in the family business. Now you want to gun down a police captain. Why? Because he slapped you in the face a little? What do you think this like the Army where you can shoot 'em from a mile away? No you gotta get up like this and, badda-bing, you blow their brains all over your nice Ivy League suit. C'mere.
[Kisses Michael on the head]
Sonny: You're taking this very personal. Tom, this is business and this man is taking it very, very personal.
%
Michael Corleone: Where does it say that you can't kill a cop?
Tom Hagen: Come on, Mikey...
Michael Corleone: Tom, wait a minute. I'm talking about a cop that's mixed up in drugs. I'm talking about a - a - a dishonest cop - a crooked cop who got mixed up in the rackets and got what was coming to him. That's a terrific story. And we have newspaper people on the payroll, don't we, Tom?
[Tom nods]
Michael Corleone: And they might like a story like that.
Tom Hagen: They might, they just might.
Michael Corleone: [to Sonny] It's not personal, Sonny. It's strictly business.
%
[Michael sees a man dressed in black coming to Vito's hospital room]
Michael Corleone: Who are you?
Enzo the Baker: I am Enzo. The baker. Do you remember me?
Michael Corleone: Enzo...
Enzo the Baker: Yes, Enzo.
Michael Corleone: You better get out of here, Enzo, there's gonna be trouble.
Enzo the Baker: If there is trouble, I stay here to help you. For your father. For your father.
%
Tom Hagen: I'm an attorney for the Corleone family. These men are private detectives hired to protect Vito Corleone. They are licensed to carry firearms. If you interfere you'll have to appear before a judge in the morning and show cause.
%
Michael: [speaking to Carlo] Only don't tell me you're innocent. Because it insults my intelligence and makes me very angry.
%
Capt. McCluskey: I thought I got all you Guinea hoods locked up! What the hell are you doing here?
Michael: What happened to the men who were guarding my father, Captain?
Capt. McCluskey: I pulled them guys off of here, eh, now get away from this hospital!
Michael: I'm not leaving until you put some guards around my father's room.
Capt. McCluskey: Phil, take him in!
Cop with Capt. McCluskey outside hospital: The kid's clean Captain, he's a war hero! He's never been mixed up with the rackets...
Capt. McCluskey: Goddamn it Phil, I said take him in!
Michael: What's the Turk paying you to set up my father, Captain?
Capt. McCluskey: [to Patrolmen] Take a hold of him. Stand him up. Stand him up straight.
[punches Michael and breaks his jaw]
%
Tom Hagen: You know how they're going to come at you?
Michael: They want to arrange a meeting between me and Barzini. On Tessio's ground. Where I'll be safe.
[Hagen is silent for a long moment]
Tom Hagen: Tessio. I always thought it would be Clemenza.
Michael: It's the smart move. Tessio was always smarter.
%
[speaking with the father of the girl he plans to marry, and after telling him that he's in hiding from some gangsters]
Michael: Some people will pay a lot of money for that information; but then your daughter would lose a father, instead of gaining a husband.
%
Sonny: Hey, whaddya gonna do, nice college boy, eh? Didn't want to get mixed up in the Family business, huh? Now you wanna gun down a police captain. Why? Because he slapped ya in the face a little bit? Hah? What do you think this is the Army, where you shoot 'em a mile away? You've gotta get up close like this and - bada-BING! - you blow their brains all over your nice Ivy League suit. C'mere...
[kisses Michael's head]
Michael: Sonny...
Sonny: You're taking this very personal. Tom, this is business and this man is taking it very, very personal.
%
[after Sonny beats up Carlo Rizzi for hitting Connie]
Sonny: You touch my sister again, I'll kill you.
%
Don Corleone: You talk about vengance. Is vengance going to bring your son back to you or my boy to me? I forgo the vengance of my son. But my youngest son had to leave this country because of this Sollozzo business. So now I have to make arraingments to bring him back safely cleared of all these false charges. But I'm a supersticious man. And if some unluck accident should befall him, if he should be shot in the head by a police officer, or if should hang himself in his jail cell, or if he's struck by a bolt of lightning... *then I'm going to blame some of the people in this room*... and that, I do not forgive. But, that aside, let say that I swear, on the souls of my grandchildren, that I will not be the one to break the peace we have made here today.
%
[to Rocco who has killed Paulie in the car]
Peter Clemenza: Leave the gun. Take the cannoli.
%
Clemenza: Damn it, Sonny's running scared. He's thinking of going to the matresses already. We got to go pick up some stuff at this address. You know any good spots on the west side?
Paulie Gatto: Yeah, I'll think about it.
Clemenza: Well, think about it while you're driving, will ya? I wanna hit New York sometime this month. And watch out for the kids when you're backing out!
%
Capt. McCluskey: How's the Italian food in this restaurant?
Sollozzo: Good. Try the veal, it's the best in the city.
Capt. McCluskey: I'll have it.
%
Sonny: How's Paulie?
Clemenza: Oh, Paulie... won't see him no more.
%
Connie: Dinner's on the table.
Carlo Rizzi: I'm not hungry yet.
Connie: Your food is on the table. It's getting cold.
Carlo Rizzi: I'll eat out later.
Connie: You just told me to make you dinner!
Carlo Rizzi: Hey, vaffanculo, eh?
Connie: Aw, vaffanculo you!
%
Michael: You and I are going to move my father to another room, now can you disconnect those tubes so we can move the bed out of here?
Night Nurse: That is out of the question.
Michael: You know my father? Men are coming here to kill him, now help me, please.
%
[the Corleone Family poses for the wedding photo]
Don Corleone: [to Sonny] Where's Michael?
Sonny: Don't worry. He'll be here.
Don Corleone: We're not taking the picture without Michael.
%
Virgil 'The Turk' Sollozzo: He's still alive. They hit him with five shots and he's still alive!
%
[Clemenza and Michael arrive to find extra guards posted outside the house]
Clemenza: What's with all the new faces?
Tessio: We'll need 'em now. After the hospital thing, Sonny got mad. We hit Bruno Tattaglia at four o'clock this morning.
Clemenza: ...Jesus Christ.
%
Michael: [teaching Apollonia to drive] It's safer to teach you English!
%
Tom Hagen: The Senator called, he apologized for not coming but said that you would understand; also some of the judges. They've all sent gifts.
[raises his glass to the Don]
Tom Hagen: Salut.
[Both men are suiddenly startled by a huge roaring cheer]
Don Corleone: What is that, outside?
[Both look out the window and see famous singer Johnny Fontane has arrived]
Don Corleone: He came all the way from California to the wedding. i told you he was gonna come!
Tom Hagen: It's been two years. He's probably in trouble again.
Don Corleone: He is a good godson.
%
Michael: [to the Don, quietly] Just lie here, Pop. I'll take care of you now. I'm with you now. I'm with you.
[he takes the Don's hand and kisses it, the Don begins to cry]
%
Connie: What's the matter, Carlo?
Carlo Rizzi: [punk sore at the world] Shut up and set the table!
%
Clemenza: The negotiator's at my house playing pinochle with some of my men, he's happy. They're letting him win.
%
Don Corleone: My godson has come all the way from California. Give him a drink.
%
Michael: You gonna kill all those guys?
Sonny: Hey, Mikey, stay out of this, all right?
%
Tom Hagen: Maybe we shouldn't get Mike mixed up in this too directly...
%
Don Corleone: I hope you don't mind the way I keep going over this Barzini business.
Michael: No, not at all.
Don Corleone: It's an old habit. I spent my whole life trying not to be careless. Women and children can afford to be careless, but not men.
%
Don Corleone: How's your boy?
Michael: He's good.
Don Corleone: You know, he looks more like you every day.
Michael: He's smarter than I am. Three years old, and he can already read the funny papers.
Don Corleone: [laughs] Read the funny papers...
%
Don Corleone: [to Michael] Listen, whoever comes to you with this Barzini meeting, he's the traitor. Don't forget that.
%
Don Corleone: [to Michael] So, Barzini will move against you first. He'll set up a meeting with someone that you absolutely trust, guaranteeing your safety. And at that meeting, you'll be assassinated.
%
Sonny: Did he... did Clemenza tell you to drop the gun?
Michael: Yeah, a million times.
%
Clemenza: Paulie, pull over, I gotta take a leak.
%
[Paulie enters the Corleones' study]
Sonny: What is it?
Clemenza: Hey, Paulie, I thought I told you to stay put.
Paulie Gatto: The guy at the gate says there's a package.
Sonny: Yeah? Hey, Tessio, go see what it is.
Paulie Gatto: You want me to hang around?
Sonny: Yeah, hang around. You all right?
Paulie Gatto: [coughing] Yeah, yeah...
Sonny: You hungry? There's a little food in the ice box.
Paulie Gatto: Nah, nah.
Sonny: Well, how about a drink? Some brandy, it'll sweat it out of ya. Alright, babe...
[Paulie leaves]
Sonny: [to Clemenza] I want you to take care of that sonofabitch right away. Paulie sold out the old man, that stronz. I don't want to see him no more. I want you to make that first thing on your list, understand?
Clemenza: Understood.
%
Don Corleone: [crying, staring at Sonny's body] Look how they massacred my boy!
%
[while watching a "Punch and Judy" puppet show]
Don Fanucci: Oh, this is too violent for me!
%
Hyman Roth: There was this kid I grew up with; he was younger than me. Sorta looked up to me, you know. We did our first work together, worked our way out of the street. Things were good, we made the most of it. During Prohibition, we ran molasses into Canada... made a fortune, your father, too. As much as anyone, I loved him and trusted him. Later on he had an idea to build a city out of a desert stop-over for GI's on the way to the West Coast. That kid's name was Moe Greene, and the city he invented was Las Vegas. This was a great man, a man of vision and guts. And there isn't even a plaque, or a signpost or a statue of him in that town! Someone put a bullet through his eye. No one knows who gave the order. When I heard it, I wasn't angry; I knew Moe, I knew he was head-strong, talking loud, saying stupid things. So when he turned up dead, I let it go. And I said to myself, this is the business we've chosen; I didn't ask who gave the order, because it had nothing to do with business!
%
Michael Corleone: If anything in this life is certain, if history has taught us anything, it is that you can kill anyone.
%
Fredo Corleone: I'm your older brother, Mike, and I was stepped over!
Michael Corleone: That's the way Pop wanted it.
Fredo Corleone: It ain't the way I wanted it! I can handle things! I'm smart! Not like everybody says... like dumb... I'm smart and I want respect!
%
Kay: It made me think of what you once told me: "In five years the Corleone family will be completely legitimate." That was seven years ago.
Michael Corleone: I know. I'm trying, darling.
%
Senator Pat Geary: [as they're watching the performer at the sex club] Freddie, that thing can't be real.
Fredo Corleone: Sure it is. That's why they call him Superman.
%
[during the play 'Senza Mamma']
Genco Abbandando: Vito, how do you like my little angel? Isn't she beautiful?
Vito Corleone: She's very beautiful. To you, she's beautiful. For me, there's only my wife and son.
%
Kay Corleone: Oh, Michael. Michael, you are blind. It wasn't a miscarriage. It was an abortion. An abortion, Michael. Just like our marriage is an abortion. Something that's unholy and evil. I didn't want your son, Michael! I wouldn't bring another one of you sons into this world! It was an abortion, Michael! It was a son Michael! A son! And I had it killed because this must all end!
[Michael's eyes begin to bulge]
Kay Corleone: I know now that it's over. I knew it then. There would be no way, Michael... no way you could ever forgive me not with this Sicilian thing that's been going on for 2,000 years.
[Michael loses control. He slaps Kay across the face. She falls onto the couch]
Michael Corleone: Bitch! You won't take my children!
Kay Corleone: I will.
Michael Corleone: You WON'T TAKE MY CHILDREN!
Kay Corleone: They're my children too.
%
Al Neri: Our friend and associate Hyman Roth is in the news. The High Court of Israel turned down his request to live there as a returning Jew. He landed in Buenos Aires last night offering a "gift" of a million dollars if they'd let him stay. They said no. His passport's been invalidated, except for his return trip to the States.
Tom Hagen: He'll try Panama next.
Michael Corleone: Panama won't take him. Not for a million, not for ten million.
%
Michael Corleone: I don't feel I have to wipe everybody out, Tom. Just my enemies.
%
Michael Corleone: I know it was you, Fredo. You broke my heart. You broke my heart!
%
Michael Corleone: There are many things my father taught me here in this room. He taught me: keep your friends close, but your enemies closer.
%
Vito Corleone: I make him an offer he don' refuse. Don' worry.
%
Michael Corleone: I'll change; I'll change. I've learned that I have the strength to change.
%
Hyman Roth: If I could only live to see it, to be there with you. What I wouldn't give for twenty more years! Here we are, protected, free to make our profits without Kefauver, the goddamn Justice Department and the F.B.I. ninety miles away, in partnership with a friendly government. Ninety miles! It's nothing! Just one small step, looking for a man who wants to be President of the United States, and having the cash to make it possible. Michael, we're bigger than U.S. Steel.
%
Hyman Roth: What I am saying is, we have now what we have always needed, real partnership with the government.
%
Hyman Roth: Stupid thugs. People behaving like that with guns.
%
Tom Hagen: It would be like trying to kill the President; there's no way we can get to him.
Michael Corleone: Tom, you know you surprise me. If anything in this life is certain - if history has taught us anything - it's that you can kill *anybody*.
%
[last lines]
[flashback - Don Vito Corleone's birthday in 1941]
Fredo Corleone, Tom Hagen, Santino, Connie, Salvatore "Sally" Tessio, Theresa Hagen, Carlo Rizzi: Surprise!
[singing]
Fredo Corleone, Tom Hagen, Santino, Connie, Salvatore "Sally" Tessio, Theresa Hagen, Carlo Rizzi: For he's a jolly good fellow/For he's a jolly good fellow/For he's a jolly good fellow/ Which nobody can deny...
%
[about the unrest in Cuba]
Michael Corleone: I saw a strange thing today. Some rebels were being arrested. One of them pulled the pin on a grenade. He took himself and the captain of the command with him. Now, soldiers are paid to fight; the rebels aren't.
Hyman Roth: What does that tell you?
Michael Corleone: They could win.
%
Michael Corleone: He's has been dying from the same heart attack for the last twenty years.
%
Michael Corleone: Fredo, you're nothing to me now. You're not a brother, you're not a friend. I don't want to know you or what you do. I don't want to see you at the hotels, I don't want you near my house. When you see our mother, I want to know a day in advance, so I won't be there. You understand?
%
[Ordering drinks in a Havana cafe]
Fredo Corleone: Uno... por favor...
[to Michael]
Fredo Corleone: How do you say "banana daiquiri"?
Michael Corleone: "Banana daiquiri."
%
Fredo Corleone: Every time I put my line in the water I said a Hail Mary, and every time I said a Hail Mary I caught a fish.
%
Senator Pat Geary: I despise your masquerade, the dishonest way you pose yourself. You and your whole fucking family.
Michael Corleone: We're both part of the same hypocrisy, senator, but never think it applies to my family.
%
[Geary is demanding a large bribe for a gaming license]
Senator Pat Geary: I want your answer and the money by noon tomorrow. And one more thing. Don't you contact me again, ever. From now on, you deal with Turnbull.
Michael Corleone: Senator? You can have my answer now, if you like. My final offer is this: nothing. Not even the fee for the gaming license, which I would appreciate if you would put up personally.
%
Senator Pat Geary: You can have the license. The price is $250,000... plus a monthly payment of 5% of the gross... of all four hotels... Mr. Corleone
Michael Corleone: Now, the price of the license is less than $20,000. Is that correct?
Senator Pat Geary: Yes.
Michael Corleone: So why would I ever consider paying more than that?
Senator Pat Geary: Because I intend to squeeze you.
%
Hyman Roth: This is the business we've chosen.
%
[Vito returns years later to Sicily and meets Don Ciccio, the man who murdered Vito's family]
Don Ciccio: I see you took the name of the town. What was your father's name?
Vito Corleone: Antonio Andolini.
Don Ciccio: You'll have to speak up. I can't hear you
Vito Corleone: My father's name was Antonio Andolini... and this is for you.
[stabs him]
%
Michael Corleone: He was stupid. I was lucky. I will visit him soon.
%
Michael Corleone: [discussing the incident regarding the two unknown gunmen who fired through Michael's bedroom window earlier] In my home.
Frank Pentangeli: Michael, when I heard I almost died...
Michael Corleone: [yells] IN MY HOME! IN MY BEDROOM! Where my wife sleeps... and my children play with their toys.
%
Senator Pat Geary: Mr. Cici, was there always a buffer involved?
Willi Cici: A what?
Senator Pat Geary: A buffer. Someone in between you and your possible superiors who passed on to you the actual order to kill someone.
Willi Cici: Oh yeah, a buffer. The family had a lot of buffers!
%
Frank Pentangeli: Those were the great old days,you know... And we was like the Roman Empire... The Corleone family was like the Roman Empire...
%
Tom Hagen: When a plot against the Emperor failed... the plotters were always given a chance... to let their families keep their fortunes. Right?
Frank Pentangeli: Yeah, but only the rich guys, Tom. The little guys got knocked off and all their estates went to the Emperors. Unless they went home and killed themselves, then nothing happened. And the families... the families were taken care of.
Tom Hagen: That was a good break. A nice deal.
Frank Pentangeli: Yeah... They went home... and sat in a hot bath... opened up their veins... and bled to death... and sometimes they had a little party before they did it.
%
Johnny Ola: Hyman Roth always makes money for his partners. One by one, our old friends are gone. Death, natural or not, prison, deported. Hyman Roth is the only one left, because he always made money for his partners.
%
Hyman Roth: I want all of you to enjoy your cake, so... enjoy.
%
Tenor: Mama! Mamma mia!
%
Hyman Roth: I loved baseball ever since Arnold Rothstien fixed the World Series in 1919.
%
Hyman Roth: I'd give four million just to be able to take a piss without it hurting
%
Hyman Roth: I don't trust a doctor who can hardly speak English.
%
[When asked by reporters why he has decided to move to Israel]
Hyman Roth: I am a retired investor on a pension, and I wished to live there as a Jew in the twilight of my life.
%
Michael: Was it a boy?
Tom Hagen: Mikey, after three and a half months...
Michael: WHY CAN'T YOU GIVE ME A STRAIGHT ANSWER ANY MORE? WAS IT A BOY?
%
Frank Pentangeli: I don't - I never knew no godfather. I got my own family, senator.
%
[flashback]
Santino: Whatcha go to college? To get stupid? You're really stupid!
%
Frank Pentangeli: Cicc', a porta!
%
[Kay is threatening to take the children away]
Michael: Don't you know that I would use all of my power to prevent something like that from happening?
%
Michael Corleone: C'mon Frankie... my father did business with Hyman Roth, he respected Hyman Roth.
Frank Pentangeli: Your father did business with Hyman Roth, he respected Hyman Roth... but he never *trusted* Hyman Roth!
%
[Before shooting occurs at the Michael Corleone estate]
Kay: Michael, why are the drapes open?
%
[Don Ciccio is threatening to kill young Vito]
Signora Andolini: But Vito is only nine. And dumb-witted. The child cannot harm you.
%
Tom Hagen: Why do you hurt me, Michael? I've always been loyal to you.
%
Connie: Michael, I hated you for so many years. I think that I did things to myself, to hurt myself so that you'd know - that I could hurt you. You were just being strong for all of us the way Papa was. And I forgive you. Can't you forgive Fredo? He's so sweet and helpless without you. You need me, Michael. I want to take care of you now.
%
Don Fanucci: Young man, I hear you and your friends are stealing goods. But you don't even send a dress to my house. No respect! You know I've got three daughters. This is my neighborhood. You and your friends should show me some respect. You should let me wet my beak a little. I hear you and your friends cleared $600 each. Give me $200 each, for your own protection. And I'll forget the insult. You young punks have to learn to respect a man like me! Otherwise the cops will come to your house. And your family will be ruined. Of course, if I'm wrong about how much you stole, I'll take a little less. And by less, I only mean - a hundred bucks less. Now don't refuse me. Understand, paisan? Understand, paisan?... Tell your friends I don't want a lot. Just enough to wet my beak. Don't be afraid to tell them!
%
Michael: I don't want anything to happen to him while my mother's alive.
%
Hyman Roth: I'm going in to take a nap. When I wake, if the money's on the table, I'll know I have a partner. If it isn't, I'll know I don't.
%
Hyman Roth: Good health is the most important thing. More than success, more than money, more than power.
%
Michael: I've always taken care of you, Fredo.
Fredo Corleone: Taken care of me? You're my kid brother and you take care of me? Did you ever think about that? Hah? Did you ever once that about that?
%
Michael Corleone: Keep 'em alive.
Rocco Lampone: We'll try.
Michael Corleone: ROCCO! ALIVE!
%
Carmine Rosato: We're all very happy about your decision, Frankie. You're not going to regret it!
Frank Pentangeli: I don't like this C-note, Rosato. I take that as an insult.
Tony Rosato: [wraps a garrote around Pentangeli's neck] Michael Corleone says "Hello"!
[drags Pentangeli to a back room and with the help of two "buttonmen" tries to shove him into a closet]
Tony Rosato: [shouts] Get his head in! Close the fuckin' door!
Carmine Rosato: [a cop walks into the bar] Your friend, the cop, what the f...
Policeman: Hey, Rich, it's dark in here. You open or closed?
Bartender: Hey, I just came in to clean up a little, you know? What's wrong?
Policeman: [noticing Pentangeli] Is that something on the floor?
Bartender: [Carmine starts to pull a gun on the officer] Carmine, No! Not here! Not a cop! Let him go!
Carmine Rosato: ANTHONY!
[as the cop starts to draw his billy club, Tony and the buttonmen run out of the back room and shove the cop into a booth, then grab Carmine and rush him out the door, followed by the cop, his gun drawn]
Tony Rosato: [to the policeman] You open your fuckin' mouth, I'll blow your head off!
[a gunfight erupts in the street as the Rosato Brothers try to escape]
%
Santino: Your country ain't your blood. Remember that.
%
Vito Corleone: [in Italian] Do me this favor. I won't forget it. Ask your friends in the neighborhood about me. They'll tell you I know how to return a favor.
%
[first lines]
Title Card: The godfather was born Vito Andolini, in the town of Corleone in Sicily. In 1901 his father was murdered for an insult to the local Mafia chieftain. His older brother Paolo swore revenge and disappeared into the hills, leaving Vito, the only male heir, to stand with his mother at the funeral. He was nine years old.
[gunshots and screams]
Woman: [subtitled from Italian] They've killed the boy! They've killed young Paolo! They've killed your son Paolo!
%
Michael Corleone: I trust these men with my life, Senator. To ask them to leave would be an insult.
%
Genco Abbandando: So, what do you think of my angel?
Vito Corleone: You're happy, I'm happy.
%
[subtitles from Sicilian Italian]
Vito Corleone: [picks up baby Michael, kisses him, holds him] Michael, your father loves you very much. Very much.
%
Kay: I suppose I always knew you were too smart to let any of them ever beat you.
%
Fredo Corleone: You know when I was your age, I went out to fishing with all my brothers and my father, and everybody. And I was, I was the only one who caught a fish. Nobody else could catch one except me. You know how I did it? Every time I put the line in the water I said a Hail Mary and every time I said a Hail Mary I caught a fish. You believe that? It's true, that's the secret. You wanna try it when we go out on the lake?
%
Michael Corleone: Anthony, I'm going to be leaving very early tomorrow.
Anthony Corleone: Will you take me?
Michael Corleone: No, I can't.
Anthony Corleone: Why do you have to go?
Michael Corleone: Because I have to do business.
Anthony Corleone: I could help you.
Michael Corleone: Someday you will.
%
Hyman Roth: [his last words] I'm a retired investor living on a pension. I came home to vote in the Presidential Election because they wouldn't give me an absentee ballot.
[Seconds later, Rocco walks up to Roth and shoots him in the stomach, killing him]
%
